v0.12.0
=======

Numerous CI/CD improvements, documentation improvements, a few new OTF perturbers, and an
additional ``ImageMetric`` implementation.

Updates / New Features
----------------------

New Features

* Implemented functionallity for computing the NIIRS metric as a ImageMetrics implementation

* Added name property to ImageMetrics implementation

* Implemented Circular Aperture OTF perturber

* Modified to optionally return thetas as floats or ints

* Implemented Detector OTF perturber

* Implemented Turbulence Aperture OTF perturber

CI/CD

* Added checks and tests for OpenCV perturbers to ensure image is in channel-last format.

* Added a mirroring job to replace builtin gitlab mirroring due to LFS issue.

* Removed an old opencv version check script.

* Added `syrupy` dependency for snapshot-based regression testing.

* Numerous changes to help automated the CI/CD process.

* `poetry.lock` file updated for the dev environment.

* Updates to dependencies to support the new CI/CD.

* Updated config for `black` to set max line length to 120

* Bumped `pybsm` to 0.7.0.

* Changed `opencv-python` to an optional dependency.

* Added `opencv-python-headless` as an optional dependency.

* Added two extras (graphics and headless) for `opencv-python` and `opencv-python-headless` compatibility.

* Changed CI to use headless extra.

Documentation

* Updated the readthedocs required packages.

* Removed lfs objects that were in `docs` to allow readthedocs to render.

* Added sphinx's `autosummary` template for recursively populating
  docstrings from the module level down to the class method level.

Fixes
-----

* Remove ``Optional`` from pyBSM sensor/scenario parameters which shouldn't be ``None``
