v0.18.0
=======

This minor release introduces new perturbation implementations, several example
notebooks, and improvements to testing and developer tooling. It also removes
deprecated functionality, updates dependency handling, and makes adjustments
for Python version compatibility.

Updates / New Features
----------------------

- Added new perturbations:

  - ``RandomRotationPerturber`` with full unit test coverage.
  - ``DiffusionPerturber``, with an accompanying example notebook.
  - Added default configuration to ``PybsmPerturber`` and ``ComposePerturber``.

- Example notebooks and guides:

  - How-To guide for **Image Classification Perturbation Saliency** with ``xaitk-saliency``.
  - T&E guide for **Affine perturbations**.

- Performance improvements:

  - ``WaterDropletPerturber`` now uses ``geopandas`` to obtain a ~3x performance boost.

- Dependency and compatibility updates:

  - Changed MAITE lower bound to **v0.8.2**.
  - Dropped support for **Python 3.9** (EOL).
  - Placed an upper bound on Python versions (``<3.13``) due to an upstream NumPy 2.0 compatibility.
  - Updated optional dependency imports to achieve full **pyright type completeness**.

- Other additions:

  - Added fuzzy syrupy comparator for TIFF Snapshot Extension.
  - Added Git LFS pointers in documentation.
  - Added an internal debugging utility to print installed extras and their sources.

Fixes
-----

- Removed deprecated ``box_alignment_mode``.
- Updated ``tests/impls/__init__.py`` to define and centralize input image filepaths.
- Updated ``random_noise.py`` to use ``1`` as the default ``rng`` parameter.
