v0.21.0
=======

Updates / New Features
----------------------

Core Features

* ``JATICDetectionAugmentation`` now uses the configured image perturber to update bounding boxes.

* Added generic ``AlbumentationsPerturber`` to support augmentations from the Albumentations package.

Examples & Notebooks

* Added ``nrtk_sensor_transformation_demo`` notebook (from ``nrtk_jatic``).

* Added example notebook demonstrating the use of ``AlbumentationsPerturber``.

* Added T&E guide showcasing ``RandomSunFlare`` using ``AlbumentationsPerturber``.

* Added example notebook exploring the ``HazePerturber``.

* Added new ``otf_visualization`` notebooks for existing OTF perturbers.

* Improved title and section headers in T&E notebooks.

Documentation

* Updated ``otf_examples.rst`` to render notebooks in documentation.

* Updated ``README.md,`` ``getting_started.rst``, ``index.rst``, and ``installation.rst`` as part of Diátaxis refactor.

* Added ``nrtk-explorer`` description to ``README.md``.

* Replaced JATIC GitLab links with public-facing URLs in ``README.md``.

* Added ``Extras`` section to ``installation.rst`` describing optional extra dependencies.

* Added new documentation ``nrtk_how_to_topics.rst`` and ``glossary.rst``.

* Added new documentation ``ROADMAP.md``, ``containers.rst``, and ``AUKUS.rst``.

* Replaced ``introduction.rst`` with ``nrtk_explanation.rst`` for the Explanation section.

* Clarified that ``poetry<2.0`` is currently required and must be used in a virtual environment
  (per Poetry documentation).

CI/CD & Tooling

* Added ``pyright`` static checking for example Jupyter notebooks under ``tests/examples``.

* Removed dependency on ``maite`` for static type checking.

* Removed ``mypy`` check and dependency.

* Updated Read the Docs (RTD) build environment to match GitLab Pages.

Testing

* Updated ``test_blur``, ``test_enhance``, and ``test_random_noise`` to use Syrupy for image comparison.

Fixes
----------------------

* Fixed error in ``translation_perturber`` when ``max_translation_limit`` is ``(0, 0)``.

* Fixed minimum dependency versions to follow program standards.

* Fixed documentation link to ``nrtk_tutorial``.

* Fixed missing extras install for notebooks CI.
