# v0.23.0

Expanded documentation and tutorial coverage, including new guides for the
WaterDropletPerturber, operational risks, and interoperability. Improved
installation instructions, docstring formatting, and cross-referencing. Fixed
perturber behavior, notebook errors, CI test issues, and linting violations.
Strengthened type checking and test utility consistency.

## Updates / New Features

Examples

- Added an example notebook guide to demonstrate the use of the
  ``WaterDropletPerturber``.

Documentation

- Improved inline documentation and docstring formatting for files under
  ``src/nrtk/perturb_image/impls/generic`` and
  ``src/nrtk/perturb_image/impls/pybsm``.

- Improved installation documentation for README.md

- Added a new section to the installation guide that lists the key dependencies
  for each perturber.

- Added a documentation page outlining operational risks

- Ensure intra-documentation links are consistent

- Added explanatory context to figure 1 in ``nrtk_explanation.rst``.

- Added missing T&E notebooks to ``nrtk_jatic/testing_and_eval_guides.rst``.

- Added ``WaterDropletPerturber`` to Risk Factors Table in ``risk_factors.rst``.

- Improved documentation based on Phase-1 documentation feedback.

- Added link to getting started within tutorial to ensure readers are familiar
  with core concepts.

- Added a note to the review process documentation on use of MRs instead of PRs.

- Improved documentation for ``nrtk_tutorial.ipynb`` to enable better tutorial
  transitions.

- Moved T&E guides and COCO scoring notebooks to ``Tutorials``.

- Improved Interoperability clarity and organization.

- Added links to pyBSM documentation for image formation concepts.

- Improved documentation for ``otf_visualization.ipynb`` to provide additional
  information regarding pyBSM's OTF parameters.

## Fixes

- Fixed pytest-core CI job with import guards for MAITE and notebook releated
  tests.

- Fixed ``LinspaceStepPerturber`` to follow default linspace behavior
  (endpoint=True)

- Fixed errors in T&E Guides and added Colab link.

- Fixed some broken URLs in jupyter notebooks

- Generalized ``DummyPerturber`` class to be used in tests.

- Use context handlers for file opens in
  ``tests/impls/score_detections/test_coco_scorer.py``

- Fixed ruff rules and updated linting.

- Removed ``Union`` and ``Optional`` type hints.

- Improved the completeness score of pyright --verifytypes

- Enabled ``D`` flag for ruff and fixed associated errors.

- Update RTD config to convert SVGs and use a different LaTeX engine with
  support for unicode characters.
