0.26.0
======

This release focuses on expanding T&E and saliency documentation, improving PyBSM integration and performance, adding
Python 3.13 support, and refactoring internal utilities for better consistency and maintainability. Several fixes
address documentation, naming, and floating-point precision issues.

Updates
-------

**Documentation and Guides**

* Added a T&E guide and notebook demonstrating use of the ``JitterOTFPerturber`` to simulate camera motion jitter.

* Added a How-To guide for saliency maps in an object detection workflow.

* Revamped the Sphinx docs landing page using the ``sphinx-design`` extension.

* Updated pre-commit hook configuration to format markdown tables.

* Fixed broken documentation links.

**Pybsm and Perturber Improvements**

* Introduced new ABC PybsmOTFPerturber to improve code quality across PyBSM perturbers.

* All OTF calculations now performed entirely within PyBSM.

* PyBSM now caches the PSF to improve performance across multiple perturbations.

* Added default configuration support in ``src/nrtk/impls/perturb_image/pybsm/utils.py``.

* Added ``docs/examples/pybsm/data/uav_default_config_nrtk.json`` and the corresponding
  example notebook ``pybsm_default_config.ipynb``.

* Replaced OpenCV calls in PyBSM perturbers with SciPy equivalents.

* Fixed bug where sensor jitter amplitudes were not passed to PyBSM perturbers.


**Perturber Interface and Regression Testing**

Added ``RandomScalePerturber``.

``additional_params`` in ``PerturbImage.perturb`` is now treated as ``**kwargs``.

Non-PyBSM perturbers now use ``PSNRImageSnapshotExtension`` for regression testing.

PyBSM perturbers now use the PSNR regression testing module.

**Internal Refactoring and Consistency**

* Added lazy importing to all ``__init__.py`` files.

* Added ``__all__`` declarations and ``from . import ...`` statements across all modules.

* Removed ``xaitk-jatic`` from NRTK dependencies and extras.

* Removed OpenCV dependency from ``WaterDropletPerturber``.

* Updated ``WaterDropletPerturber.__init__`` to use a default seed of 1.

* Removed ``water_droplet_utils.py`` (moved helper function to ``water_droplet_perturber``).

* Moved custom Syrupy extension fixtures to ``conftest.py`` for reuse and improved readability of fuzzy comparator.

* Added Python 3.13 support.

**Math and Utility Updates**

* Updated ``ccw_sort`` to use ``numpy.float128`` arrays.

* Updated ``WaterDropletPerturber``'s ``get_bezier_curve`` to include a tolerance parameter (default ``1e-8``) for
  floating-point comparisons.

* Updated snapshots for ``WaterDropletPerturber``'s ``test_ccw_sort`` and ``test_regression_get_bezier_curve``.

**Compatibility and Naming**

* Renamed ``linspace_step`` module to ``linspace`` to match class name.

* Fixed diffusion pipeline loader compatibility with ``transformers>=4.55``.
