v0.8.0
======

Major refactoring of CI/CD and commit process, a few minor code updates, and updated documentation.

Updates / New Features
----------------------

Code Updates

* Removed gen_perturber_combinations from GenerateBlackboxResponse class, so it is now a standalone function.

* Removed perturber interface restriction which required that input image dimensions be maintained.
  Note perturbers which modify image dimensions (including rotations) should be used with caution as
  scoring can be impacted if ground truth isn't similarly transformed.

* Removed `name` parameter from Jitter OTF.

CI/CD

* Major overhaul of pipeline to improve efficiency and `yml` readability.

* Added `ruff` and `black` check to CI/CD (currently optional).

* Updated coverage to look at `src/nrtk` rather than `nrtk`.

* Create MR-specific environments for documentation preview.

* Fixed a publish docs bug on `main`.

Other

* Added `git pre-hook` to assist in linting.

* Refactored package into `src/nrtk` instead of `nrtk`.

* Add `prefer-active-python=true` to `poetry.toml` to use system `Python`.

* Updated git lfs to properly track large files in any directory.

Dependencies

* Added new linting `black` and `ruff`.

Documentation

* Updated documents to reflect new refactor.

* Added Jitter OTF perturber code doc.

* Added a section that shows visual examples of perturbations based on pyBSM OTF parameters, starting with the Jitter OTF perturber, along with corresponding code snippets to generate these perturbations.

Fixes
-----
