v1.0.1
======

This patch release contains fixes to CI/CD pipelines, container builds,
documentation, public/private API visibility, and notebook execution. Key areas
include completing the tox migration for CI quality jobs, fixing the container
build pipeline, correcting documentation errors and metadata, and resolving
notebook path and import guard issues.

Fixes
-----

* Fixed incomplete tox migration in the CI quality stage by migrating
  ``ruff``, ``pyright``, and ``sphinx-lint`` jobs from ``poetry run`` to tox,
  adding a ``.tox-setup`` CI base to centralize the tox version pin, combining
  ``ruff-lint`` and ``ruff-format`` into a single ``ruff`` job, and migrating
  the coverage job to ``tox -e coverage``.

* Fixed container CI pipeline by redesigning it with separate build jobs for
  branch (``build-branch``), main (``build-main``), and release
  (``build-release``) builds. Restructured the ``Dockerfile`` into a
  multi-stage build with ``build-from-source`` and ``build-from-pypi`` targets,
  removing the Poetry dependency. Switched to CPU-only PyTorch, reducing image
  size from ~9.2 GB to ~2.7 GB. Added a versioned image tagging scheme and
  switched ``.dockerignore`` to a whitelist approach.

* Fixed missing container security and lifecycle tooling by adding SBOM
  generation (Syft), vulnerability scanning (Trivy), cosign image signing, and
  SBOM attestation to all build jobs. Added a ``verify`` job for signature
  verification and smoke testing, a nightly scheduled sweep to remove stale
  branch images and cosign artifacts, and stale artifact cleanup when
  overwriting existing tags. Added ``.trivyignore`` for vulnerability scan
  exceptions.

* Fixed missing container documentation by adding
  ``docs/containers/nrtk-perturber.rst`` with image tag reference, usage
  instructions, input arguments, error codes, and cosign verification commands.

* Fixed documentation errors including a typo, broken anchor link, extras case,
  and missing pyBSM hyperlink in ``README.md``; stale ``master`` branch
  reference and release notes path in ``CONTRIBUTING.md``; Alpha development
  status classifier in ``pyproject.toml``; and a broken reference to
  non-existent ``docs/review_process.rst`` in ``release_process.rst``.

* Fixed missing ``poetry2conda`` section in ``pyproject.toml``.

* Fixed incorrect public/private API visibility for
  ``nrtk.impls.perturb_image.optical.RadialDistortionPerturber``,
  ``nrtk.impls.perturb_image.optical.otf``, ``nrtk.interfaces.PerturbImage``,
  and ``nrtk.interfaces.PerturbImageFactory``.

* Fixed missing developer documentation by adding a ``Testing Architecture``
  guide with a Quick Start for running tox, the environment-to-extras mapping
  table, and a checklist for adding new implementations. The guide also covers
  how import guards, pytest markers, canary tests, the
  ``ImportGuardTestsMixin``, tox environments, and the GitLab CI pipeline work
  together to validate NRTK's modular dependency model.

* Fixed outdated ``JitterPerturber`` code sample and broken link in
  ``README.md``.

* Fixed unlinked Related Resources section in ``validation_and_trust.rst`` by
  adding ``:doc:`` cross-references and removing the unused Parameter Defaults
  entry.

* Fixed XAITK-Saliency notebook execution errors including incorrect path
  resolution when running via papermill, keyword argument and visualization
  errors in the object detection notebook, and import guards not aligned with
  current codebase patterns. Enabled GPU-accelerated PyTorch in notebook install
  cells.

* Fixed missing XAITK-Saliency notebook test coverage by adding import guard
  unit tests under ``docs/examples/nrtk_xaitk_workflow/notebook_tests/``, an
  ``xaitk-notebook-tests`` CI job across Python 3.10–3.13, and broadening the
  ``ruff`` per-file-ignores pattern to ``**/*tests/*.py`` so notebook tests
  receive test-file lint exemptions.
