v1.0.2
======

This patch release hardens the ``nrtk_perturber_cli`` entrypoint against empty
input datasets, fixes two cross-test pollution bugs in the import-guard test
infrastructure, and resolves linting failures surfaced by a ``ruff`` upgrade.
It also closes a gap in the test matrix where per-extra tox environments were
missing cross-extras pollution issues.

Fixes
-----

* Fixed ``nrtk_perturber_cli`` crashing on empty input datasets by adding an
  explicit check before attempting to perturb.

* Fixed ``mock_missing_deps`` not restoring parent package attributes after
  re-importing modules, causing ``mock.patch`` on dotted paths through guarded
  packages to fail with ``AttributeError`` in subsequent tests.

* Fixed ``TestOtfImportGuard`` not evicting cached ``_pybsm`` submodules,
  allowing the import guard in ``otf.py`` to be bypassed when ``pybsm`` was
  mocked as missing.

* Fixed a gap in the test matrix where per-extra tox environments could not
  catch cross-test pollution between extras. Introduced an ``optional`` tox
  environment and CI job that runs all non-notebook tests in a single session
  with every extra installed.

* Fixed pytest collecting marker-gated tests when no marker was specified, by
  adding a ``require_marker`` fixture that properly excludes them, and by
  defining an ``optional`` marker that aggregates all other markers except
  ``notebooks`` so the new cross-extras session can select them.

* Fixed linting failures surfaced by upgrading ``ruff``.
